of fundamental forces are there? What are those? Compare their intensities. 5. What do you mean by balanced and unbalanced force? 6. What is momentum of a body? 7. Show that, force = mass × acceleration 8. What do you mean by law of conservation of momentum? 9. What is friction? Write down the name of different types of friction. 10. Friction is a necessary evil- give argument in favor of it. 68 Physics Chapter foru WORK, POWER AND ENERGY [By work we mean to do something in our everyday life. But in physics it refers to a specific concept. In the beginning of this chapter we will present this concept. The most important topic in science is energy. From our experience we see that the world becomes inactive without energy. We get energy in different forms. Such as kinetic energy for motion, potential energy for object in higher position from the ground, the energy of spring at contract condition or expanding condition, heat energy of hot body, electrical energy of charged body etc. The energy is transforming from one form to another gradually although the total energy of the universe remains unchanged and constant. In this chapter we will discuss about the transformation of energy and the law of conservation of energy, one of the important laws of science.] By the end of this chapter we will be able to - 1. Explain the relation between work and energy. 2. Establish the relation among work, force and displacement. 3. Explain kinetic and potential energy. 4. Explain the transformation of energy in its source. 5. Analyze the contribution of the source of energy regarding economic, social and environmental influence. 6. Explain the relation between transformation of energy and conservation of energy. 7. Explain transformation of energy and how its uses hamper the balance of environment. 8. Explain the effective use of energy in developing activities. 9. Be conscious about the effective and safe use of energy. 10. Explain the mass-energy relation. 11. Establish the relation between transmission of energy and power. 12. Measure the efficiency. Physics  69