Neill Bohr’s (1885-1962 A.D) concept of electron layers in the hydrogen atoms were very important step of atomic physics. The next important discovery was made in 1938. At this time Otto Hann (1879-1968 A.D) and Stresemann (1902-1980 A.D) found out that nucleus was fissionable. Due to fission a nucleus of large mass number splits up into two nuclei of approximately equal mass number and a part of its mass is converted into energy as a result of which atom Physics 5 bomb and nuclear reactor are invented. The amount of energy we are getting at present from the nucleus is huge compared to the energy obtained from all the sources in the past. Day by day nuclear energy is becoming the principal source of energy. In this century quantum theory of the relativity etc. was developed in the field of theoretical physics. Satyendranath Basu (1894-1974 A.D) professor of physics, University of Dhaka made important contribution on theoretical physics. He demonstrated a comparatively correct form of Planck’s quantum theory. His theory is known as Bose-Einstein’s statistics. As recognition of his contribution one kind of elementary particle is named after him and is called Boson. Three nobel laureate physicist Prof. Abdus Salam (1926- 1996 A.D) of Pakistan, Sheldon Glasso (1932-) and Stevan Wienberg (1933-) of United States made outstanding contribution by discovering weak electric force in unifying the elementary particles in unified field theory. Prior to that nobel laureate physicist Chandra Shekhar Ramon (1888-1970 A.D) discovered Ramon effect. Physics has made significant contribution in the progress of medical science in twentieth century. By using radio isotopes along with the discovery of numerous equipments physics has contributed to medical science. Another advancement of physics in twentieth century is exploration in the space. The contribution of physics lies in landing human footprint on the moon along with the staying of months after months in space station and exploration on the Mars. Artificial satellite has contributed to forecast weather and made communication easy. Moreover electronics has already brought about revolution in our daily life and changed our life style. Now a