the principles of lever and the law of upward force acting on bodies immersed in liquid and was able to determine the impurity in metals. He also knew the technique of setting fire by concentrating sun rays with the help of spherical mirrors. After Archimedes, scientific discoveries advanced rather slowly for a few centuries. In fact scientific discoveries did not revive in Europe before the thirteenth century. During Physics 3 this time West European civilization particularly adopted the trends of the Byzantine and Muslim civilization in the pursuit of knowledge. The Arabs were also particularly advanced in Science, Mathematics, Astronomy, Chemistry and Medical Science. During this time the contribution of Ibne-Al-Haithan (965-1039 A.D) and Al-Hazen (965-1038 A.D) may be particularly mentioned for their theories of light, a branch of physics. Ptolemy (127-151 A.D) and other earlier scientists believed that the eyes itself sends light rays to see an object. Al-Hazen contradicted this view and asserted that we see an object because light rays from the object fall on our eyes. Experiments with magnifying glass brought him near to the modern theory of convex lens. Al-Masudi (896-956 A.D) wrote an encyclopedia on the History of Nature in which the name of Windmill was first mentioned. At present many countries of the world produce electricity by using this windmill. Roger Bacon (1214-1294 A.D) was the pioneer of the experimental scientific methods. According to him all scientific truths should be verified through observations and experiments. At the end of the fifteenth century, Leonardo de Vinci (1452-1519 A.D) made a model of aero plane by observing the act of flying of birds. Although he was a painter, he had considerable knowledge about mechanics. As a result, he was able to invent efficiently some common instruments. During the Galileo-Newtonian age and even before that time a few of very important scientists, although small in number were born. They contributed a lot to the