of other branches of science. For example, the principle of conservation of energy is a principle of physics used to explain the wide range of science starting from the structure of atom to weather forecasting. Although the main function of physics is to study matter and energy, the main objective of physics is to realize the rules of nature as well as unearthing the mystery of nature. In the beginning of twentieth century physicist discovered that electrons revolves around 6 Physics the positively charged nucleus of atom. Subsequent experiments proved that nucleus consists of protons and neutrons. Now the physicists have discovered that proton and neutron are formed of more smaller particles. The study of physics helps not only to understand and explain the natural events but also its application plays a vital role in other branches of science. At present physics is at the centre probably because of its application in other branches of science. The discovery of electron at the end of ninetieth century made possible to invent electron microscope which has brought about a revolution in material science and Cytology. In physics there is development of theories and application mathematics at the same time it has practical application and engineering application too. Physics is very essential to give fundamental explanation and form idea about Chemistry, Geology, Astronomy, Meteorology etc. In addition, there is wide application of methodology and instruments of physics in Biology, Oceanology, Psychology and Medical Science. Physics describes the laws of nature: The natural world that we live in follows some certain laws e.g. Newton’s law of gravitation, law of conservation of energy etc. Since our childhood we have been acquiring these laws through our personal experiences which are very essential for our life. We cannot change the function and laws of nature but can utilize them. For their proper utilization we need sufficient knowledge about them. Moreover physics is the science that studies on this earth for innovation. Development of technology results from the proper application of fundamental laws of physics : We have to have knowledge about the fundamental laws of physics if want to know how television works, rocket flies in the space, artificial satellite revolves around the earth,