the Venire’s method is used for the measurement with this instrument. The main scale of the slide calipers is made of a graduated rectangular still plate. A metal jaw is fixed at the starting end of the main scale, that is, at the end marked 0 of the main scale. A Jawed small scale is put over the body of the main scale, to measure fraction of the small division of the main scale accurately. It is called venire scale. Fig 1.2 Slide Calipers This Jawed vernier scale can be moved forward or backward along with the main scale. There is screw in it. It can be fixed at any point on the body of the main scale with this screw. When the Jaw of the vernier scale touches the Jaw of the main scale then the zero of the main scale should coincide with the zero of the vernier scale. By using vernier scale fraction of millimeter may be measured accurately. Vernier constant of the slide calipers can determine from the above mentioned vernier scale chapter. Measurement of slide calipers : Suppose, the length of rod is to be measured. The rod is to be placed between the two jaws of the slide calipers. The jaw connected with the vernier scale is to be pushed forward so that the jaws of the main scale and the vernier scale touch the opposite ends of the object. The rod is placed such that it’s left end coincides with zero (0) mark of the main scale. The vernier scale is moved forward and backward to make it coincide with the right side of the rod. Suppose the right end of the rod has crossed M mm mark of the scale and is between M and (M + 1) mm. This extra distance beyond M mm is to be determined by using the vernier scale. This length will be the vernier reading. Now it is to be noted which vernier scale mark coincides with which of the main scale mark. If no vernier mark coincide with a main scale mark then find out the nearest vernier mark. The reading of this mark that is the number of vernier scale divisions from the left to this mark, is the vernier scale reading. Suppose the Vth vernier mark coincides with or nearest with any main scale mark. Hence the vernier constant of the