this error can be reduced by precautionary measurement. In order to minimize the random error average of the frequent measurement is to be taken. b) Instrumental error : We need instruments for experimental measurement in physics. The error with the instrument is called instrumental error. For example, if the zero marking of main scale is not super-imposition with the zero marking vernier then the result of measurement will not be accurate. This kind of error is known as instrumental 20 Physics error . Similarly if the indicator needle of ammeter or voltmeter is not super-imposition with the zero marking then there remains error with the instrument. The instrumental error has to be determined before starting the experiment. Finally the actual reading has to be obtained by subtracting this error from the reading. c) Personal error : We have to take various readings during experiment. The error that an experimenter makes during experiment is called personal error. The error with the position of the observer, observing any mark or any calculation is also said to be personal error. For example there will be an error while measuring the length of a rod if the super-imposition of the edge of a rod with a definite mark of the scale is observed obliquely instead of perpendicular position. There will be error in reading when we cannot observe which division of circular scale is in super-imposition with the linear scale of a time per screw gauge. Similarly we cannot find accurate if there is mistake in counting oscillation number while determining time period of a pendulum. All these are known as personal errors. We have to take the reading properly and carefully with a view to avoiding these errors. Investigation:1.1 Determination of area and volume of a rectangular substance. Objective : By using slide calipers determining the length of a substance. Theory : Area of a substance is the surface of that substance. And the substance occupy some space is called volume of the substance if area of a substance is A and volume of the substance V. A = L x B, where L = Length of the substance ....................... (i) B = Breadth of the substance and V = L x B x H where, L = Length of the substance............ (ii) B = Breadth of the substance H = Height of the