then the flow will stop. Therefore it can be said, the role of temperature in heat, role of free surface of liquid in hydrostatic and the role of potential in electrostatic are same. Electric Potential of Earth: Earth is an electric conductor. When a charged body is connected to the earth, it becomes electrically neutral. When a positively charged body is grounded electrons coming from the earth neutralize the body. When a negatively charged body is grounded Figure: 10.13 Physics 169 electrons from the body flow to the earth and the body becomes neutral. The earth is so big that if charge is added or taken away from it its potential does not change at all. Likewise if water is taken away from sea or poured in the water level does not change. The earth is always taking charge from different bodies and simultaneously it supplies charge to other bodies. Hence earth is considered charge less. To determine the height of a place the height of the sea level is taken as zero, similarly to determine the potential of a body, the potential of earth is taken as zero. Zero, Positive and Negative Potential: The potential of an uncharged conductor is taken as zero. When a charged conductor is connected to the earth its potential becomes zero. Because, in the connected state , both the conductor and the earth is considered as a single conductor. The potential of a positively charged body is positive and negatively charged body is negative. Unit of potential, Volt: If the work done in bringing 1 coulomb (1C) of positive charge from infinity to a point in the electric field is 1 joule (1J), then the potential at that point is called 1 volt (1V). The potential at a point in an electric field is 20V means to bring 1 coulomb (1C) positive charge from infinity to that point 20J work is to be done. Potential difference: Let, in an electric field A and B are two points and the potentials of the points are VA and VB respectively (fig: 10.14). The work done in bringing a unit positive charge from infinity to point A is VA and to point B is VB. Therefore the work done in bringing a unit positive charge from point B to point A is VA -VB i.e. the potential difference between these two points. The work