V= Electric potential determines in which direction the flow of electric charge takes place when two charged conductors are electrically connected. If two positively charged metallic spheres are connected by conducting wire (fig:10.12) then any of the following phenomena may occur. 1. Some charge from the left sphere may go to the right sphere. 2. Some charge from the right sphere may go to the left sphere. 3. The charges may remain as it is. W q 168 Physics The movement of charge from one sphere to another does not depend on the quantity of charge of the spheres but it depends on electric potential. The positive charge will flow from sphere to sphere of higher potential to that if lower potential. This flow of charge will continue until the potential of these two spheres become equal. So, potential is an electric condition of a charged conductor that determines whether it takes or gives up charge when connected to another charged conductor by a connecting wire. Similarity between potential and temperature and free surface of liquid: The role which is played by temperature and the height of free surface of liquid in heat and hydrostatics respectively, potential plays the same role in electrostatics. We know, if we connect two bodies thermally, there may be exchange of heat between them. The flow of heat does not depend on the mass of i.e. inherent heat within it, but on the temperature. If we connect a highly heated body with another body which is much heavier but of low in temperature, then heat will flow from the small body to the large body, though the amount of heat is much greater in the larger body than the smaller one. Two tubes A and B are placed at same horizontal level. They are connected by a tube with a stop cock S (Fig: 10.13). Closing the stop cock water is poured in to A and B tubes in such a way so the height of water column is same in two tubes. As the diameter of B is much greater than that of A, to raise the water level at same height much more water is requires for tube B. Now if the stop cock is opened there would be no change in water height i.e. there is no flow of water. Though the amount of water is different in two tubes, but as there is height is same, so there is no flow of water. Now if closing