3. What is electrostatic induction? 4. What do you mean by inducing charge and induced charge? 5. Describe how a body is charged by the process of induction. 6. Describe the construction of a gold leaf electroscope. 7. Describe how a gold leaf electroscope can be charged positively. 8. How the nature of charge of a charged body can be determined by a gold leaf electroscope? 9. What are the factors on which the electrostatic force between two charges depends? Physics  175 Chapter eleven CURRENT ELECTRICITY  [We rely on electricity in different areas of our daily lives. Most of the modern instruments and equipments are run by electricity. We have come to depend so much on electricity that it is difficult to imagine what would be life without electricity. In the previous chapter we have discussed about static electricity. In this chapter different quantities related to current electricity e.g. electric current, resistance, electromotive force and potential difference will be described. In addition, the direction of electricity, conductor, insulator and semiconductor, electric circuit, Ohm’s law, fixed and variable resistance, dependence of resistance, series and parallel combination of resistance, electric power, system loss of electricity and load shedding, safe and effective use of electricity will be discussed.] By the end of this chapter we will be able to- 1. Demonstrate production of current electricity from static electricity. 2. Explain the direction of electric current and flow of electrons. 3. Draw the circuit by using the symbols of electric devices and appliances. 4. Explain conductor, insulator and semiconductor. 5. Establish a relationship between electric current and potential difference by using graph. 6. Explain fixed resistance and variable resistance. 7. Explain electromotive force and potential difference. 8. Explain dependence of resistance. 9. Explain resistivity and conductivity. 10. Use series and parallel circuit. 11. Use an equivalent resistance in a circuit. 12.