As metals are good conductors, the electricity of the wire may pass through the pillar to the ground if the pillar has connection with wires. If anyone touches the pillar he could immediately be electrified causing serious accident. So the wires are connected to the pillars by a porcelain cup. Thunder bolt and lightning conductors: We know that there is water vapor in atmosphere. This water vapor being condensed on the charged ions on the atmosphere and form water 172 Physics droplets and become charged with electricity. When these water droplets gather together cloud is formed. Cloud can be charged either positively or negatively. When two oppositely charged clouds come close to each other then electrical discharge takes place between them and makes huge spark. This is called lightning or electric flash. During electric flash the air around the cloud expands suddenly by getting heated. Due to sudden expansion the pressure of the air lowers much. Then neighboring air at higher pressure contracts the expanded air. Due to this sudden expansion and contraction of air, violent sound is produced. This is known as roaring of thunder. If there is too much charge on a cloud then it includes opposite charge on the surface of the earth and electric discharge takes place. This is known as thunder bolt. Lightning conductor or lightning arrester: In order to protect buildings from the ravage of lightning the lightning conductor is used. The metallic rod R (Fig 10.18) with several sharp points at the top is fixed in such a way that its upper end extends several feet above the roof of the building and lowers end runs down along the outer surface of the building and buried well inside the moist earth. When a charged cloud passes above the building then the charge of opposite kind is induced in the conductor rod R. The accumulation of charge is at maximum at the pointed ends of lightning conductor and pointed ends discharges their charge to the air particles around it. The air particles around the sharp points are charged by conduction and are attracted by the opposite charges of cloud and moves towards the cloud is neutralized. As a result the probability of thunder bolt decreases. Electricity always passes following the shortest path through a conductor. The charge produced in the clouds tends to reach the earth through the high standing objects. During storm and rain