is melted and causes fire. 3. Damped conditions: Many electrical accidents may occur in damped conditions. We know, electricity can pass through water. The parts of an electric appliance which are not insulated must be kept dry. Otherwise, there is a risk of short circuits and electric shocks. As an example, leaving a hair dryer on a wet sink is very dangerous. The person using the sink could be electrocuted if the wires were exposed or the insulation had damaged. Besides this, switching on or off of an electric switch by wet hand is risky. Safe use of electricity In the previous section you were informed about the dangers of electricity. In the present section, we will learn about the safe uses of electricity. When using electricity at home, the safety measures that are needed: 1. Circuit breaker 2. Fuses 3. Correct connection of switch 4. Earth wire 1. Circuit breaker Circuit breakers are used as safety devices. Generally this is placed near the front door of a house. Circuit breaker switches off the electrical supply in a circuit when there is an overflow of current. Circuit breaker disconnects the electrical supply in a definite part of the house. Without circuit breaker in a circuit, this excessive current can cause damage of home appliances or even start a fire. 2. Fuses: A fuse is a safety device. A fuse is included in an electrical circuit to prevent excessive current flow. The fuse is always connected to the live wire of electrical cables. A short thin piece of wire is used as a fuse. The fuse becomes hot and melts when the electric current flowing through it is greater than a definite value. As a result, the circuit is disconnected and the electrical appliances will be safe. The fuse is marked with definite amount of current on its body. Fuses will be such that it can bring slightly higher current than the maximum current an electrical device or appliance can tolerate safely. If the fuse burns, the appliance will not be electrified any more. Before changing fuse, you have to switch off the mains of electricity supply. Figure: 11.14 194