the functions of generator? 4. What is the difference between generator and electric motor? 5. What are the functions or activities of step up and step down transformer? 6. How can the intensity be increased of electromagnet? 7. Any transformer is connected with the source of 240V AC. The number of turns of its primary coil and secondary coil is successively 1000 and 50. What is the voltage of its secondary coil? Physics 209 Chapter thirteen MODERN PHYSICS AND ELECTRONICS [At the beginning of 20th century, a new era has been introduced in the field of physics. During this time, theory of relativity and quantum theory have been invented. To explain the motion of high speed particles and the various phenomena of nuclear and atomic physics these two theories were needed. Besides, electronics has reached to a more developed stage through the process of evolution, as a result of which we become able to construct and use various developed devices of information and communication. Thus, the modern physics has been evolved. In this chapter, we shall discuss about radioactivity, radioactive particles and rays, the gradual development of electronics, semiconductor and integrated circuit, different electronic devices, microphone, speaker, radio, television, phone, fax machine, internet and e-mail.] By the end of this chapter, we shall be able to – 1. Explain Radio-activity. 2. Explain the characteristics of alpha, beta and gamma rays. 3. Describe the sequential development of electronics. 4. Differentiate between the analogue and digital electronics. 5. Explain semiconductor and integrated circuit. 6. Explain the functions of microphone and speaker. 7. Explain the principles of the functions of selected communication technology devices. 8. Explain the communication process with the help of internet and e-mail. 9. Investigate how the information and communication technology devices influence our life. 10. Be conscious to make the proper and effective use of information and communication technology devices and raise consciousness among others. 210  Physics