Every telephone set is connected Figure: 13.11 Land and mobile telephone Figure: 13.11 Function of land telephone 220 Physics to the main regional office through wire. The connection with other telephone set is established through the regional head-office. Cell phone or mobile phone: Cell phone or Mobile phone is the most popular and widely used medium of communication of present time. You can not only communicate with other but also, can play games, download music, songs, hear music, watch film and use internet with the help of it. Besides, you can make cash payment, pay bill, check in at the airport and apply for the admission in a college or university using this phone. You can communicate from one corner of the country to another over phone. Making and receiving phone call in Mobile: This phone is not connected to another phone with wire. This type of phone sends and receives information or speech with the help of radio signal instead of wire. A mobile set is connected to the telephone network through dialing to other mobile sets from the keyboard of one set. When you make a call from a mobile from anywhere, the call travels to the transmitter-receiver tower as a radio wave. Then the call travels to the mobile switch station through micro wave or wire. This station sends this call to the local telephone exchange. There the call reaches to the called person as a telephone call. Most of the mobile phones at present work with the combination of sending radio wave and telephone circuit switching. Fax: Fax is the short form of facsimile. It is used to send a document as it is, without any change. What is Fax: Fax is such an electronic system through which any information, picture diagram or writing can be sent by copying it as it is. Any original document can be reproduced with the help of this machine. Though the fax machine was invented in 1842, its journey started in 1930.The scientist Alexander Bain invented fax.  Figure: 13.13 Mobile Network Figure: 13.14 Sending document by fax machine Physics