is used to send a document as it is, without any change. What is Fax: Fax is such an electronic system through which any information, picture diagram or writing can be sent by copying it as it is. Any original document can be reproduced with the help of this machine. Though the fax machine was invented in 1842, its journey started in 1930.The scientist Alexander Bain invented fax. Figure: 13.13 Mobile Network Figure: 13.14 Sending document by fax machine Physics 221 How Fax works: Modern fax machine is an ultra modern technology of electro optical machine. Here the original document is scanned through electronic process. Then, the scanned signal is transformed into binary signal. This signal is sent using standard modem device through telephone. The receiver of fax machine receives the transmitted electronic signal through modem and converts it into original document by demodulating it. A printer prints out this document just as it is. Computer: This is the era of information and technology. The uses of computer are so excessive in every sphere of life including information technology and communication that this era is also called the era of computer. Most of the works of our daily life are being influenced by computer. Computer has become very essential in the field of science and technology. Computer can perform mathematical calculation and give mathematical logic. Besides, performing mathematical calculation, computer can select or choose anything, can copy, can compose, can decorate respectively etc. The use of computer is increasing day by day in the field of trade and commerce, administration, education, industry, medical science, communication, defense, entertainment etc. What is computer? The word computer means calculator. It is not only a calculating machine but also more than that. Computer is such an electronic device that can receive, process, transform, preserve and send any data. All the computers are controlled by the programmed command which tells the computer what it will have to do.