on television, there are separate transmitters in the transmitting station by which sound and picture can be sent in the form of electromagnetic wave. Figure: 13.10 Pictures are transformed into electrical signals and then sent with the help of one of the transmitters. With the help of another transmitter pictures are transformed into electrical signals and then transmitted them in the form of electromagnetic wave. At first we should discuss about sending and receiving picture. The pictures or the scenery are to be sent has to be converted into electrical signals by the TV camera. This signal is mixed with a high frequency carrier in the modulation process.  Afterwards it is sent in the form of electromagnetic radio wave with the help of an antenna. TV set receives electromagnetic carrier wave for the picture with the help of antenna. Rectifier separates video electrical signal from the carrier wave. This electrical signal is amplified by an amplifier and it is sent to the electron gun. This electron gun is attached to the back of the picture tube of the television. After receiving the video signal, the electron gun shoots the narrow electron beam like a needle. When the electron beam from the electron gun incidents on the fluorescent phosphor screen of the TV, then flash of light is created. With the combination of these bright and dark spots, bright and dark light spots and flashes are created on the TV screen. The picture sent from the camera is seen on the TV screen with the combination of these bright and dark spots. This forms 25 still picture on the TV screen in every second which our eyes see as moving picture. Transmitting and receiving of sound The picture which will be sent to television and the sound associated are converted into electrical signal with the help of microphone. This electric wave is mixed with a high frequency electromagnetic wave known as carrier wave and it is transmitted with the help of transmitter. The TV set that we use in our house has separate processes of receiving sound and picture signal. The electromagnetic wave comes to our TV antenna sent by the Physics  219