system, for giving salary of the staffs, to make budget of income and expense etc. 3. Transport system: Computer is used to control traffic of ship, aero plane, motorcar, train etc, to control speed, to book ticket etc. Besides, computer is used to send, control and run space craft. 4. Industries: Computer is being used to produce goods in an automated process, to justify the quality of goods, to collect data, to provide salary of the employees, to Input Output Memory Unit Control Unit Arithmetical Logic Unit Physics  223 maintain schedule of the work etc .To run an atomic reactor or to use such complex and modern machine, computer is very essential. 5. Education: Computer is being used for teaching in classrooms, for self-learning, to evaluate answer scripts and to publish results. 6. Defense: Computer is used to conduct Army, to control arms, to communicate etc. 7. Research: The uses of computer are increasing day by day in the field of research. 8. Printing: The use of computer has brought about a revolution the field of printing. The excessive cost of printing has been reduced for using computer to compose, design etc. Internet and E-mail: You must have heard the name of internet and e-mail. Most of you who are living in a town perhaps have sent e-mail using internet from your residence or school. But most of you who are living in villages might have sent e-mail to your friends or relatives from internet and fax shops. At present e-mail is the widely used mailing medium. What is internet? Internet is the ‘network’ of networks or the ‘mother of all networks’. It is an international network that has connected more than 400000 small networks of different countries. The American defence division has introduced internet in 1969. Internet is such a group of networks which is made of numerous computers, modems and telephone lines. These elements are mutually connected to one another physically. These networks are able to exchange any kind of information or data among themselves. Internet is the sum of many networks and they work as a single network all together.