the input devices which are used generally are key-board, mouse-touch pad, scanner, digital camera and microphone. Where data is being processed is called CPU or Central Processing Unit. In this unit, there is memory unit or RAM, control unit and arithmetical logic Unit. The end from where the result is found is Output. 222 Physics There are mainly monitor, speaker and printer as output device. We get the processed data through them. A basic structure of computer is given below: Figure: 13.16 Structure of computer The elemental devices by which a computer is made are called Hardware. Such as keyboard, mouse, processor, monitor, printer etc. Software is a group of commands that says computer what it will have to do. These are some programs as- Windows-98, Windows-2003, Windows-2007. Hardware is the body of a computer and software is its soul. Computer is considered as a very essential machine for its speed, ability of preserving data, relevancy, accuracy, tirelessness and automation. Computer can work in an unbelievable speed; it can make millions of mathematical calculations in a second. The uses of computer: Computer is being used in many spheres of our life. The fields of using computer are- 1. Treatment: Computer is used for recording the appointment, identity, address, symptoms of diseases etc of patient, the selection of medicine, to examine the eye, X-ray or other diagnosis, the operation of heart and for the study of medical science. 2. Trade and Commerce: Computer is used to control the deposit of goods, for commercial communication, for booking ticket, banking system, for giving salary of the staffs, to make budget of income and expense etc. 3. Transport system: Computer is used to control traffic of ship, aero plane, motorcar, train etc, to control speed, to book ticket etc. Besides, computer is used to send, control and run space craft. 4. Industries: Computer is being used to produce goods in an automated process, to justify the quality of goods, to collect data, to provide salary of the employees, to  Input  Output