receiving of sound The picture which will be sent to television and the sound associated are converted into electrical signal with the help of microphone. This electric wave is mixed with a high frequency electromagnetic wave known as carrier wave and it is transmitted with the help of transmitter. The TV set that we use in our house has separate processes of receiving sound and picture signal. The electromagnetic wave comes to our TV antenna sent by the Physics 219 transmitter and creates electric current. This electric current reaches the receiver of television set passing through the wires. The sound receiving receiver of the television set receives this electrical signal and amplifies it. Later it is sent to the loudspeaker which converts this electrical signal into original sound .We can hear this sound. Generally these are the functions of black and white television. Colour television: There are no major differences between the basic principles of colour TV and Black and White TV. There are three separate electron guns in the camera of colour television for three basic colours (Red, Blue and Green) .There are also three electron guns in the receiving machine of colour television. The screen of colour television is made of three kinds of phosphor granules. A particular colour illuminates the phosphor granules of that particular colour. Consequently, the screen of a television tube gives red, blue and green light spots. Hence the coloured image becomes visible on the TV screen. Telephone Introduction: Telephone is the largest, most widely used and popular medium of communication in the world. It is used to communicate, send E-mail, Fax, and for computer communication etc. with any other country. Alexander Graham Bell invented Telephone in 1875. Through many evolutions, the telephone invented by Graham Bell has reached to the modern dimensions and cordless, cellular and mobile-phone has been made. How does telephone work In every telephone set, there is a system of receiving and transmitting signal. The mouthpiece of a telephone is microphone, it is the transmitter and the ear-piece is a speaker, and is the receiver. There is a ringer for making the ringing sound and a dialing system in a telephone set. When we speak, the microphone of the mouthpiece converts our voice into electrical signal. This signal reaches to the