problem in your ears but also if there are patients suffering from heart diseases or high blood pressure or any other patients neighbouring you, they may suffer more and get restless from sound pollution. The people, who listen to radio and television with high volume, may fall victim to headache, hearing problems, tiredness etc. health problems. So, do not play radio and television with high volume. Many people disturb others misusing mobile phone. We should refrain ourselves from such activities. Exercise  A.  Multiple choice questions Tick (√ ) the correct answer. 1.  What do mean by alpha particle emitting from radioactive elements?  (a) a hydrogen nucleus  (b) a helium nucleus  (c) a charge neutral particle (d) a negative particle 2.  What is actually beta ray emitted due to the radioactive decay?  (a) the flow of negative electrons  (b) a charge neutral particle  (c) a positive nucleus  (d) flow of positive protons 3.  What is called a silicon chip if millions of circuit is added to it?  (a) parallel circuit  (b) semiconductor transistor  (c) integrated circuit  (d) semiconductor diode 226  Physics 4.  What is the function of a camera in broadcasting television?  (a) to transform picture into electrical signal (b) to transform picture into sound wave  (c) to transform electrical signal into picture (d) to transform sound wave into picture B.  Creative question 1.  The world is getting smaller. We live in a global village. Information and communication technology have connected all the people of the world effectively and efficiently. The major media of communication are television, radio and telephone.  a) What is communication machine?  b) How does telephone work? Explain.  c) How does a radio station transmit a signal of definite frequency and how does it reach the people, explain with diagram.  d) Analyze and compare the effectiveness of television and radio as communication machine. 2.  The cricket match between Bangladesh and India is being telecast on BTV from the Premadasha Stadium of Srilanka. As a result we can enjoy the cricket match on television staying at home.