in human body. Life killer cancer may cause from this radiation. The preventive power against disease is reduced if someone keeps oneself in close-contact with excessive radioactive radiation for a long time. Man can be mentally disabled; even he may be physically invalid. The harmful effect of radioactivity can be observed from generation to generation. So the people who work with radioactive radiation should be careful. They should take proper steps to protect themselves from the excessive radioactive radiation. 212 Physics 13.6: Development of electronics The present era is the era of electronics. Radio, television, phone, fax, camera, computer, watch etc. are the contributions of electronics. The control of electric current through vacuum tube, special type of crystals and chips is known as electronics. The history of electronics is ancient of more than hundred years. The real journey of electronics begins with the invention of Addison’s effect in 1883. When Addison was working with electric lamp, one thing was disturbing him highly. The positive end of the filament of carbon of the lamp was burning again and again. To remove this difficulty, he entered a plate by sealing it with the filament. He saw that when a positive potential is given to the plate with respect to the filament, an electric current flows through the vacuum tube. But when a negative potential is applied to the plate electric current does not flow. Addison explains this phenomenon in this way- as the emitted charge from the hot filament goes to the positive plate, so this charge is negative. If the plate is negative, it repels the emitted charge, as a result no current flows through the circuit. This is known as Addison effect. British physicist Fleming first invented the vacuum tube by using Addison effect. This tube works as a rectifier that means it changes alternating current to direct current. This is the real beginning of electronics. During this time, detector was very necessary for Marconi’s Radio. This tube fills up the need of the detector. As there were two electrodes in it, this is called diode. After two years, an American named Lee de Forest invented another vacuum tube called triode. Since it had three electrodes, it was named as