motion with respect to its surroundings when it changes its position with time. And this change of position with time is called motion. We discussed earlier that to understand whether an object is in rest or in motion it is necessary to chose a reference object or reference frame. If the relative positions of this Do by yourself : Hold a pen in your hand. Do by yourself : Keep the pen in your hand moving to and fro. 28 Physics considered object and the reference object remain unchanged with time, the considered object is said to be in rest with respect to reference object. If the considered object and the reference object move along the same direction with same velocity even though the distance between the objects, remain unchanged despite the object, being in motion. If two friends remain seated face to face in a running train, then the relative position of one with respect to other does not change. So one is said to have in rest with respect to other. When a person observes these two friends standing by the side of the train line he will see their position is changing with respect to him. That is both the two friends are in motion with respect to the person standing by the side of the train line. So we see that an object is actually in rest or not depends on the reference object. If the reference frame is actually in rest, object in rest will be : actually in rest with respect to that frame. This type of rest is called absolute rest. A body is said to be in absolutely rest when it is in rest with respect to an absolutely rest object. Similarly absolute motion of a body is its motion with respect to a reference object absolutely at rest. But in this universe it is not possible to get a reference object which is at absolute rest. Since the earth is continuously moving round the sun, while the sun itself is moving along the galaxy with its planets and satellites. Thus when we say that a body is at rest or in motion, we mean it is to be so with respect to a body apparently at rest. So we can say that in this universe all rest and all motion are relative. No rest or no motion is absolute. Mitu is waiting for a bus at the bus stand to go somewhere. She notices her friend Roni crossing her by rickshaw. She says that the rickshaw is in motion because it is changing its position continuously with