Laser gun we can know whether a car is violating the highest limit on the highway or the speed every ball of Mashrafi Bin Murtaja, the fastest bowler of Bangladesh national team. Velocity : Sometimes during usual conversation many people use the word velocity to mean speed. But in science the two words do not mean the same thing speed indicates only the rate of change of position with time, it does not indicate the direction of change 34 Physics of position. The velocity states the rate of change of position along with its direction that is, velocity means the rate of change of position in a definite direction or in other words the rate of change of displacement. Hence velocity of a body is its rate of change of displacement with time, that is the distance traveled by a moving body in unit time in a definite direction is called the velocity of the body. If a body travels a distance s in a definite direction in time t the velocity is v = 3 t The dimension of velocity is the same as that of speed, i.e [ LT-1 ] The unit of velocity is ms-1 the same as that of speed. Velocity has both magnitude and direction. So, velocity is a vector quantity. A road may be taken as an example at some place the road has made a 300 angle with east and has gone straight towards north (Fig 2.4). On this road, if a car moves with a uniform speed of 20kmh-1 then we will be able to state correctly that the velocity of the car is 20 kmh-1 towards north at an angle 300 with east. But if the same car moves in a circular road with uniform speed of 20kmh-1 than the direction of its motion will be continuously changed. So its velocity will also be changed continuously, although its speed will always remain the same. The magnitude of the velocity of a body is its speed. The specific directional speed is its velocity. If the magnitude and direction of the velocity of a moving body remains unchanged, then the velocity of the body as called uniform or equal velocity. The velocity of sound is a good example of natural phenomenon of uniform velocity. Sound travels in a definite direction over equal distances in equal intervals of time and it is 332ms-1 in Air at