force acts on a body, it acts acceleration. So, acceleration of a body is produced due to the force of gravity as well. This acceleration is called acceleration due to gravity. 40 Physics The rate of increase of velocity of a freely falling body on earth due to force of gravity is called the acceleration due to gravity. The acceleration due to gravity is represented by the letter g. The quantities of magnitude of `g’ any place on earth is Here, M = mass of the earth G = a universal constant, which is called gravitational constant R = Radius of the earth As the earth is not perfectly round, the polar regions are a bit compressed, therefore the radius of the earth R is not constant. Hence the values of `g’’ is not the same at all places on earth. The polar radius `R’ is the shortest and so the value of `g’ at the pole is the maximum. And the value of R is the longest at the equator. So the value of `g’ at the equation is the minimum. Since the value of `g’ is different at different places on the surface of the earth, its value at sea level altitude 45° is accepted as the standard value. This standard value of `g’ is 9.80665ms-2. For convenience the standard value of `g’ is taken to be 9.8ms-2 or 9.81ms-2. Falling Bodies : If a body is dropped from a certain height, it falls on earth due to the influence of gravity. If a heavy and a light object are dropped from the same height simultaneously, will they reach the ground at the same time ? In fact, if a piece of stone and a piece of paper are dropped from the same height, it is seen that the stone reaches the ground first. Since the acceleration due to gravity does not dropped on the mass of the body, the acceleration of the stone and that of the paper would be the same. So they should reach at the same time on the earth, but due to the resistance of air two bodies reach at different time on the earth. If there is no resistance of the air, they would fall at the same time. Laws of falling bodies : Galilio discovered three laws relating to falling bodies : These are called laws of falling bodies. These laws are applicable