Place more bricks or books at the upper end to make it higher i.e. to make it more sloppy 6. Again find the average speed measuring the time the marble requires to strike the ground. 7. Similarly measure the average speed for different slope of the plank. Physics 45 Table of observation Reading Traveled distance i.e. length of the plank Time (s) Average speed = distance time (ms-1) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8. Discuss the causes of change of average speed Investigation:2.2 Demonstration of models of different kinds of motion through different activities. Objective : To demonstrate the models of different types of motion and observe their differences by the role play of the students. Apparatus: Long rope, chalk powder or lime. Working Procedure : 1.  Mark a long straight line by chalk powder or lime in your school field or any play ground nearby or stretch out a long rope straightly 2.  Now run to the other end along the rope 3.  Put a mark at any place of the field and let one stand on the mark. Then let another one hold the right hand of other straightly by his left hand. Third one holds the right hand of second by his left hand. Stand by holding hands successively in this way. It will be a long straight chain like form. 4.  If any one outside the chain produces sound all the members start to run slowly centering the first one holding their hands so that the chain does not break or disorder. 5.  Stretch a few meter (Suppose 10 meter) long straight rope at one side of the field. Two of you stand at the two ends of the rope and one of you at the middle of it. Now starting from the first one walk towards second and return to first one just touching him without stopping your walk. Again touching first one go to the second one  . Repeat it for several times. 6.  Note down the characteristics of the motion mentioned in procedure 2 in your copy. 7.  Write down the characteristics of motion in your copy mentioned in procedure 4. In this case the motion of all participants are circular and periodic. Example the causes why these motions are circular and periodic breaking the chain. 46