another. Let, you want to displace a massive box on the floor. If the friction of the contact surface is large enough, then it takes a lot of labor to displace it. By polishing or smoothing the surface it can be decreased. 64 Physics Using wheels There are wheels in bus, truck and many types of machinery. The wheel is an ingenious invention. Its circular shape reduces friction to a minimum. Without wheel was it possible to use this machinery? Using wheel in a suitcase reduces the friction and it becomes easier to pull it. The value of the rolling friction in comparison to the sliding friction is reduced greatly due to the attachment of wheels. Using lubricants Oil, mobil and grease like materials are called lubricants or greasy materials in short. A layer of lubricant between the two surfaces can greatly reduce the friction. So, lubricants are used between the moving parts of an engine. In addition, we use oil in sewing machine, lock and hinges. Using ball bearings Another important invention similar to the wheel is the invention of ball bearing. It was possible to reduce the friction greatly between the surfaces by using ball bearing. Ball bearings are the small, smooth metal balls. Generally these are made of steel. Ball bearings are placed between the moving parts of a machine. They roll around so that the moving parts of the machine do not rub against each other directly. That is, the surfaces roll over one another instead of sliding and friction reduces. There are uses of ball bearing in car’s wheel, cycle and electric fan [Figure 3.10].  Figure 3.10 Increasing friction Driving cars Without friction in the road, the tyres of a car will just spin around at the same spot. Possibly you have seen how truck and bus is blocked in a slippery or muddy road in the rainy days. What is the reason behind this? This is due to the large decrease in friction. So friction is to be increased according to the necessity. The car tyres are so designed that they are able to grip the road properly and create necessary frictional force. Therefore the surface of the tyres are designed with treads i.e. grooves and teeth.