body tends to remain stationary due to inertia of rest. Thus the upper part of the body lags behind with respect to the lower part. As a result the passenger inclines backwards. On the other hand, when a sudden brake is applied in a moving bus the passengers lean forwards. When a bus is in motion, the passenger of the bus is also in the same speed of the bus. When the bus stops suddenly, the lower part of 50 Physics the body also becomes stationary with the bus. But the upper part of the passenger’s body moves forward due to inertia of motion. During car driving the drivers wear seat belt for safety. What is the reason? The reason behind this is inertia. If he doesn’t use seat belt, he would lean forward due to inertia of motion for applying fast brake. For this reason he would hit the steering and other bodies in front of him, for this a serious accident may happen. Not only have the drivers, the passengers also had to wear the seat belt if there is an arrangement of seat belt in the car. We have a general concept about force from our daily life experiences. When we pull or push a body, then we say a force is applied upon the body. This applied force can create or tends to create motion in a stationary body. If the body is in motion, then the applied force can cease the motion of the body or tries to increase its velocity. In both cases to apply force, it needs direct contact between the force applier and the body. These types of force are known as contact force. If the two bodies are not in direct contact, still they can apply force on each other. Such a well-known force is the force of gravitation, whose practical example is the weight of a body. When a body falls from your hand, then it quickly touches the ground. What is the reason? It happens due to the weight or attraction of the earth on the body. We define this force as the force of gravitation. In this way we feel the existence of different type of forces in different events of nature. For example- the magnetic force between two poles of a magnet, the electrical force between two charged bodies, nuclear force within the nucleus. Now we will see how we can get concept about inertia and force from Newton’s first