do we mean by energy? The energy of a body means its ability to work. So the body which is able to work has energy in it and the body that does not have energy in it cannot work. displacement ( time )2 (displacement)2 ( time )2 ML2 T2 Given, Mass of man, m = 70kg Force, F = weight of the man = mg = 70kg × 9.8 ms-2 = 686N Displacement, S = 200m Work, W =? Physics 71 When we say a body has energy in it we mean the body can apply force on other and can work. Again the amount of work done on a body is equal to the energy we use. The energy of a body refers to its ability to work. Here work means the transformation of energy from one form to another. It means that the total amount of work that a body can do is its energy. The amount of work a body can do is the measure of its energy. So, the amount of work done is the amount of energy used. Therefore, Work done = Energy used Energy has no direction. So it is a scalar quantity. The unit of energy and work is the same and it is joule (J). Different forms of energy We need different types energy for doing different kinds of work. For example we need heat to boil water. We get light energy from an electric bulb. There is sound energy in the music we hear. We need muscular energy to shift or to lift any object. Electrical energy is necessary to operate an electrical device. We get chemical energy by chemical reaction in the electric cell. A piece of paper flies due to energy of air. Nuclear energy is released when the atoms are accumulated or broken. The universe is in motion as there is energy. If no energy existed the universe would be motionless. As there is light energy we can see and hear because of sound energy. We can move for mechanical energy. Fan rotates and factory runs with the help of electric energy. Energy exists in the universe in different forms. Generally we observe the following forms of energy. Such as, mechanical energy, heat energy, sound energy, light energy, magnetic energy, electrical energy, chemical energy, nuclear energy and solar energy. The most common form of energy is mechanical energy. The energy that is stored in a body due to its position or motion is called mechanical energy. In this lesson