wood and leaves and mechanical energy from current of water and flow of wind. The economic development of human being begins from the use of machine energy. Industrial revolution and invention of steam engine reduced men’s dependence on muscle energy of human and animals. Man kept operating different machines with the help of steam energy. Fuel is Here, Mass of the body, m = 6 kg Height, h = 20m g = 9.8 ms-2 Potential Energy, Ep = ? Physics 75 necessary to produce this steam energy. So we consider different kinds of fuels to be the sources of energy. The most common sources of energy are coal, mineral oil and natural gas. Coal, mineral oil and natural gas from underground are used as fuel directly or by refining them slightly. Coal: Coal is best known to us as one of the sources of energy. It is an organic substance. Once upon a time there were numerous plants and trees. Due to different natural calamities and natural consequences the leaves of the trees and their stems were buried underneath the earth and began to coagulate. As a result of chemical changes, the leaves of the trees and stems were transformed into coal. Combustion of coal gives us heat directly. This is a well known fuel. Many essential substances can be produced from coal apart from using it as a fuel. Some of the coal products are coal gas, tar, benzene, ammonia, toluene etc. Coal is used to cook food and to drive the steam engines. In modern age, the main use of coal is in thermal power plants. The main fuel in a thermal power station is coal. The main problem of a coal fueled power station is that it emits sulphur smog which causes acid rain. Though this acid is very weak, it kills the fishes of pond, cannel and lake, destroys forest and damages the sculptures of stone. Mineral Oil: Petroleum or mineral oil is one of the principal sources of energy. It is widely used as a fuel in the present world. It is being used right from a rural cottage to the most modern transport system. Petrol, pitch that is used to pave roads, kerosene and chemical fertilizers are all petroleum products. There is nothing like petrol to be