it kills the fishes of pond, cannel and lake, destroys forest and damages the sculptures of stone. Mineral Oil: Petroleum or mineral oil is one of the principal sources of energy. It is widely used as a fuel in the present world. It is being used right from a rural cottage to the most modern transport system. Petrol, pitch that is used to pave roads, kerosene and chemical fertilizers are all petroleum products. There is nothing like petrol to be used as fuel. On the other hand, many kinds of artificial fabrics can be developed from petroleum. These are terry line, polyester, cashmilon etc. Moreover, various types of cosmetics are produced from petroleum. But it is basically used as a fuel. Petroleum products are used to produce electric and mechanical energy. Petroleum is a Latin word. It is a combination of two minor words: Petro and Olium. In Latin language ‘petro’ means stone and ‘olium’ means oil. So, petroleum means oil of stones i.e. oil stored inside stones. In tertiary age i.e. almost five to six crores of years ago the trees and the animals fell buried in the different layers of sedimentary rock on the bottom of the sea. Due to different chemical changes these were transformed into mineral oil. Most of the solid regions of the present world were a part of the bottom region of the sea in prehistoric age. Natural Gas: Natural gas is a well known source of energy. Specially, the use of natural gas in Bangladesh is wider. Use of natural gas is very high in all advanced countries. It is also used in different industries as fuel. In Bangladesh it is widely used for domestic requirement basically for cooking purposes. It is also used in fertilizer factories. Heat energy is produced by the combustion of gas and electric energy is produced from heat energy in a thermal power station. Natural gas is obtained from underneath the earth. Digging very deep well the gas may be taken out from underneath the earth. Tremendous temperature and pressure inside the earth is the root cause of the creation of the gas. Natural gas is also available in 76