by mechanical energy created by water current in co-ordination of magnetic energy is called hydroelectricity. Making a model: Make a model of a hydroelectric station that uses the energy of falling water to turn a turbine to operate a dynamo to produce hydroelectricity. [Fig: 4.6] Potential energy is used to produce electricity in the Kaptai electricity production station of our country. Man is trying to use the energy of tide and ebb of river or ocean for a long time. The operation of different machines using the energy of tide and ebb has been invented a long time ago. In France electric energy production projects are being successfully implemented using the energy of tide and ebb. Other countries of the world are also trying to set up tidal energy projects to produce electricity. Wind Energy Wind flows due to the difference of temperature in the earth surface. Kinetic energy due to the air flow can be transferred into electric energy. The machine that transforms energy is called Windmill. People in the ancient time used to lift water from well, sail ship using the wind blow. Still today people sail in the boat using air energy. Nowadays electric energy is produced using windmill with the help of technology. Geo-Thermal Energy The heat in the earth can be used as the source of energy. The heat in the deep of earth is so high that it can melt pieces of rocks. This melted rock is called Magma. This Magma sometimes rises up and remains stored just below the surface of the ground due to geological changes. These types of places are known as hot spot. When the water under the ground comes in contact with the hot spot it turns into steam which remains stored in the ground. This steam could be let out passing a pipe through a hole on the hot spot with the help of high pressure. Electricity can be produced rotating a turbine with the help of this steam. There is such kind of power station in Newzealand. Biomass Energy A small fraction of solar energy is transformed into chemical energy by the green plants in the process of photosynthesis and remains stored as biomass in different parts of the