the pure mercury contained in a container. Now remove the finger and take necessary steps to keep the tube vertical. It will be observed that the mercury has come down to some extent and has attained a steady position. It might appear apparently that the mercury inside the tube is in standing position by itself. But in reality it is not so. It happens so due to air pressure. Atmosphere is always exerting pressure on the mercury of the container. This pressure is convoyed through the mercury and acts in the upward direction in the tube. This very pressure holds the mercury column of the tube. In absence of this pressure the mercury of the tube will come down due to the force of gravity. Therefore, atmospheric pressure is equal to the pressure of the mercury column of the tube. Generally the height of the mercury column that remains in the tube in about 76cm i.e. the air pressure supports the pressure of 76cm column of mercury. In this way using the height of a liquid the atmospheric pressure can be measured. The space that remains just above the mercury column in the tube up to its closed end is totally empty. This empty space is termed as Torricelli’s vacuum. Only a scarce amount of mercury vapor exists there. The apparatus used to measure the air pressure is called barometer. 5.4: Altitude and atmospheric pressure The atmospheric pressure depends on the density and height of the atmosphere. On the earth’s surface and on sea level the normal air pressure is 76cm of mercury pressure. With the increase of altitude from the sea-level the weight and density of air-column decreases. So, the air pressure reduces with the increase of height. The atmospheric pressure on the peak of Mount Everest is about 30% of the sea-level air pressure. For this reason respiration becomes difficult at such a high level. There is a possibility of bleeding from the nose at high altitude as atmospheric pressure is considerably low there. Nowadays normal pressure is kept inside a plane for the convenience of the passengers when it flies at a very high altitude and low pressure region. With the increase of height from the