of the water is 5cm. If the height of the block is 2cm, then 1. Find the water pressure P1 on the upper surface of the block 2. Calculate the pressure P2 at the bottom of the block 3. How much force will be applied by water on the upper surface of the block? 4. How much force will be applied by water at the bottom of the block? Make comments on the results. Figur: 5.8 Figur: 5.9 Physics 95 Causes of accidents in waterway in Bangladesh Accidents occur frequently in the waterways in our country. When a ship is made, its size and shape both are made in such a way that at the floating state the weight of the water displaced by the immersed part of the body is equal to the weight of the ship. Now as more passengers get onboard, the more of its weight increases and it keeps immersing into water. When more passengers than its capacity get on the ship, it sinks. According to weather signals a ship will have to sail carefully taking less number of passengers than its capacity as current and waves are there in the river. Due to defective design of the ship its centre of mass changes and becomes the cause of accident. One should not get onboard being an excess passenger. 5.10: Pascal’s Law If pressure is applied on any point of an enclosed liquid or gas it is transmitted in all directions. Pascal stated a law about this transmission of pressure. Pascal’s law: External pressure applied to any portion of a liquid or a gas enclosed in a container is equally transmitted in all directions in the liquid or the gas without any trace of diminution and acts perpendicularly on the surface of the container in contact with the liquid or gas. Mathematical explanation of Pascal’s law: principle of multiplications of force On any portion of a confined liquid if force is applied by a smaller piston, then forces of greater magnitudes are exerted on the pistons of greater cross sectional area. This is known as principle of multiplication of force. Let, C1 and C2 be two cylinders (Fig:5.10) and A1 and A2 be their cross sectional areas respectively. The two cylinders are connected by a pipe. There is an air tight piston in each cylinder. The two