table. Take water at room temperature in container A and take reasonably hot water (that your hand can tolerate) in container C. Mix some amount of hot water and water at room temperature in the container B. Now dip your right hand in the container A and left hand in the container C. After one minute bring out both hands and immerse both hands at the same time in the container B. What are the feelings of your two hands? Water at a certain temperature is in the container B; yet hotness will be felt by the right hand and coldness by the left hand. Because the water in which the right hand was immersed previously was at a lower temperature than the water contained in B. Similarly coldness will be felt by the left hand because the water in which the left hand was immersed previously was at a higher temperature than the water contained in B. Temperature Temperature is such a thermal condition of a body which determines whether the body will receive or give up heat when it comes in thermal contact with another body. Temperature may be compared with the free surface of a liquid. We know that liquid flows from a higher level to a lower level. In the figure the height of liquid in vessel A is more than that of the liquid in vessel B. But the amount of liquid in vessel A is less than the amount of liquid in vessel B. When stop cork S is opened the liquid from vessel A will start flowing to vessel B until the height of the liquid on both sides become equal. In the same way after the thermal contact, heat continues to flow from hotter body to colder one until the temperatures of the both bodies come to equilibrium position. The body with more temperature will lose heat whereas the body having less temperature will gain heat. The name of the apparatus used to measure the temperature is called thermometer. Fig: 6.1 Fig: 6.2 102  Physics Unit of temperature: In SI system the unit of temperature is Kelvin (K). Kelvin: The particular temperature and pressure at which water remains at its three states- solid, liquid and gas, is called the triple point of water. The temperature of the triple point of water is considered as 273 K. 1 273.16