image of that object. Figure 8.10 132 Physics In figure 8.10, O is a point object in front of a concave mirror. The ray OM from the point O being parallel to the principal axis incident on the mirror and reflected through the principal focus along the line MFI. The ray OP incident on the pole P reflects along the path PI. The reflected rays intersects at the point I. The point I is the image of the point O. Figure 8.11 In figure 8.11, O is a point object in front of a plane mirror. From the point O, the ray OT incident perpendicularly on the mirror and reflects along the path TO. The ray OQ incident obliquely on the mirror and reflects along QR. As these two rays are diverging, if they are extended backward they meet at the point I. Therefore, the reflected rays seem to be diverging from the point I behind the mirror. This point I is the image of the point O. If a beam of rays after being reflected from or refracted through any surface meet at a second point or appears to diverge from the second point, then the second point is called the image of the first point. An object is the sum of innumerable points. As a result, image of an object is formed as like as an individual point. Classification of images When you see your appearance in a mirror, you see your image behind the mirror. This happens due to the reflection of light. Image like this formed in a mirror, through which light ray do not actually meet, is called virtual image. Images in which light rays actually meet together (e.g.- images on a cinema screen) are called real images. The pictures formed in the screen of a digital camera are real images. Real images can be displayed in a screen but the virtual images cannot be displayed in a screen. Images are of two types- (A) Real image (B) Virtual image (A)Real image: If light rays emitted from a point after being reflected or refracted on a surface actually converge at a second point, then this second point is called the real image of the first point. In figure 8.10, I is the real image due to reflection. (B) Virtual image: If light rays emitted from a point after