135 2. Rays incident parallel to the principal axis are reflected through the principal focus in a concave mirror. Rays incident parallel to the principal axis after reflection in a convex mirror appear to diverge from the principal focus [Figure: 8.15]. Figure: 8.15 In a concave mirror, rays incident through the principal focus are reflected parallel to the principal axis. Rays directed towards the principal focus after reflection become parallel to the principal axis [Figure: 8.16]. Figure: 8.16 Images formed in a concave mirror: The position, size and nature of an image formed in a spherical mirror depend on the position of the object placed in front of the mirror. If there is a change in the position of the object, then a corresponding change in the position, size and nature of the image also takes place. Let, MPM′ be a concave mirror. Here, P is the pole, F is the principal focus and C is the centre of curvature of it. AO is the object situated perpendicularly on the principal axis in front of it. If the object is placed anywhere between infinity and the principal focus, the image thus formed will always be real and inverted. Again, in case of an object placed in between the principal focus and the pole, the image will be virtual and erect. The real and virtual images formed by a concave mirror are described below: Real image From the point O, a ray OM incident at the point M parallel to the principal axis and reflected through the principal focus along the path MI. Another ray OCM′ from the point O incident through the centre of curvature C on the mirror and reflects back along the same path. After reflection, the two rays meet at the point I actually. Therefore I is the real image of the point O. From A, ray incident along the principal axis reflects back along the same path. So, the image of A will be formed on that line. Let us draw normal, IB, from the point I on the principal axis. Now, BI is the real image of the object AO [8.17]. The nature of the image is real and inverted. A B