on the glass of the aquarium. After the refraction of light through the glass, the sight reaches our eyes. Therefore it is also a contribution of refraction of light. 158 Physics Investigation: 9.1 Image formation by a convex lens and its demonstration. Objective: Use of convex lens and production of real image in the lab. Apparatus: A convex lens. Working procedure: 1. Take a convex lens. 2. Stand near the door or window of the lab with the lens. 3. Hold the lens in front of any sight such as trees, buildings etc outside the lab. 4.  Move the lens from left to right and form the image of the sight on a white paper behind the lens. 5.  To make the image clear move the lens forward or backward from the paper. 6.  You will see the clear image of the object on the paper at definite distance. 7.  In this way the image of a distant object can be projected on the wall. 8.  Describe the form of the image. Investigation: 9.2 Determination of the least distance of distinct vision of different people and identification of usable spectacles. Objective: To identify the defect of eye by measuring the least distance of distinct vision and to identify the usable spectacles. Tools: Newspaper or book Working procedure: 1. Select five persons from your teachers, classmates, parents, elder brothers and sisters. 2. Let one of the selected persons read out the newspaper. 3. Mark the distance where he/she can read the newspaper comfortably. 4. Now measure the distance between the newspaper and the eye by a meter scale. This is the least distance of his/her distinct vision. 5. Similarly measure the least distance of distinct vision of five persons and record it in a table. 6. Justifying the least distance of distinct vision of each person (less or more than 25cm) and you can recommend for spectacles. 7. Describe the reasons of different least distances of distinct vision for different people. Table of observation Name of person Approximate age Least distance of distinct vision Recommended Spectacles (If necessary)