back side is greater than that of the front side. This lens is hooked in the eye ball by ciliary Given, Focal length, f = +0.1m Power, P =? f 1 +0.1 1 Figure: 9.20 154 Physics muscles and suspensor ligaments. Due to the contractions and suspension of these muscles and ligaments, the curvature of the lens changes. It ultimately changes the focal length. To see different objects of near and distance, we need to adjust our focal length. 8. Retina: Just behind the eye lens, there is a layer of semi-transparent light sensitive membrane in the innermost side of the eye ball. It is called the retina. It is made of some nerve-fibers called rods and cones. These nerve-fibers are connected to the eye-nerves. When light falls on the retina, it creates a kind of excitement in nerve- fibers. Hence, a sensation of vision is created in the brain. Aqueous humour and Vitreous humour: The saline watery fluid that fills up the space between the eye lens and cornea is called aqueous humour. On the other hand, the jelly like substance that fills the gap between retina and eye lens is called vitreous humour. Accommodation of eye: If an object is placed before a convex lens, it forms a real image at the back of the lens. If a screen is placed at the back of the lens an inverted image of the object is found on the screen. Experiment proves that in a certain place of the screen the image is most clear. For any reason, if the object is moved forward to or backward from the lens, the screen is to be moved forward or backward as well to get a clear image. Now if we want to get a clear image of the object on the screen at its previous position, we have to use lenses of different focal lengths. Things happen in a similar way in case of eyes. The cornea, aqueous humour, eye lens and vitreous humour together work as a convergent lens system. If any object is placed before our eyes and if the image of that object is reflected on our retina, then there will be a sensation of vision in the brain. As a result, we